432 ACCOUNT or THE ABIPONES.

offers to hunters in the plains, woodS, rivers,
and lakes. If the surface' of the earth yields no

food, they seek under the earth, or the waterS‚
for esculent rootS‚ of which they call some

neeyeka‚ others hakamlk, and others again lee-
kate. There is also a kind os very small bean,
which they call nauvirgila, and which is com-
monly found in the woods. These beans, when
boiled, though not very savoury to the palate,
serve in some measure to fill the bellies of the
Indians.

WHEAT.

The soil of Paraguay, particularly in the ter-
ritories of Buenos—Ayres‚ Monte-Vide0‚ and St.
Iago of the Tueumans, is extremely fruitful of
wheat. It is nevertheless no less true than
surprizing that greatest part os the Spanish
nation never taste wheaten bread, to avoid the
difficulty of sowing and grinding this grain: for
you never see any thing like a water-mill here.
The mill-stone is turned about by horses, in
some places by the wind. Ι saw but two wind-
mills of this kind, and those were in the city of
Buenos-Ayres. European wheat differs from
that of Paraguay, the latter having a very short
stalk, but a larger ear, containing larger grainS.
The Guaranies out off the ears alone with a
common knife, and leave the stalks in the field,

