PARAGUAY. 389

yearly produces one fruit, and becoming· ex-
hausted, gradually dies away3 whilst, in its
place, a little plant, taken from the crown of

the ripe fruit, is placed in the ground, and next .

year bears fruit. This also is the case when it
grows wild without cultivation3 for the new
germ falls from thetop of the plant, and takes
root.

THE MANDIOC.

The mandioc is the root of the little plant
mandio, which is about the height of a middle-
sized man. It is supported by a very straight,
slender trunk, the thickness of a man's thumb‚
knotty like a reed, w12h bark resembling that
of a hazle, and pith, spungy, like the elder’s,
and full of milk. At the top it is crowned with
branches and little boughs, with elegant, long,
'narrow leaveS, of abeautiful green colour. The
flowers are yellow. The want of fruit is com-
pensated by the roots, which are sometimes
three feet long, fragile, thicker than a man’s
arm, and covered with a dusky skin like the
bark of a hazle. Their very white pith is full
of a milky‚ glutinous, and poisonous liquid.
As in the cinnamon shrub the bark is alone
made use of 3 so in the mandio, the root is the
only serviceable part. The Americans are ac-
quainted with lnore than twenty species of this

c c 3

