258 AccouN'r OF THE ABIPONES.

effecting our business, and saluted by the bisses
of the women. But the very same tiger at sun-
set daily approached the town, to tear away part
of the carcass osa dead horse, without ever being
caught by the Indians who lay in wait for him.
The Abipones have continual contests with tigerS‚
and unless the spear misses, are uniformly victo-
rious. Hence an Abipon is very rarely devoured
by 3 tiger, but innumerable tigers are devoured
by the Abipones. Their flesh, though horridly
ill-savoured even when quite fresh, is eagerly
craved after by the equestrian savageS, who also
drink melted tiger's fat, esteeming it nectar, and
even believing it 3 means of producing valour.
They 311 detest the thought of eating hens, eggs,
sheep, fish, and tortoiseS, imagining that those
tender kinds of food engender sloth and languor
in their bodies, and cowardicein their mindS. On
the other hand, they eagerly devour the flesh of
the tiger, bull, stag, boar, anta, and tantandua,
having an idea that, from continually feeding on
these animaIS, their strength, boldness, and cou-
rage are increased. In repeated battles with
tigers many persons are wounded by their claws.
The scarS, after the wounds are healed, occasion
excessive pain and burning, which no time nor ’
medicine can ever relieve. The tigers them-
selves are tormented with the heat of their own

