PARAGUAY. lll

many, but even the higher orderS‚ often smoke
tobacco.

In Brazil the Portugueze twist the tobacco leaf
into ropeS‚ which, prepared in different ways,
are either used as snuff, or chewed or smoked.
It is incredibie how highly this Brazffian to-
bacco is extolled by medical men, and how
eagerly it is sought by Europeans. The Spa-
niards themselves every year consume an asto-
nishing quantity to provoke saliva. By the
traffic in tobacco alone, many millions have
been lost by the Spaniards to the Portugueze,
the sole venders of an article in such demand,
To restrain so great an-annual exportation of
money to foreignerS, it was provided by the Ca-
tholic King Charles III. in the year 1765, that
the Spanish and Indian Paraguayrians should
henceforth prepare their tobacco in the manner
of the Portugueze, as being no wise inferior to
the Brazilian‚ and that it should be sold at the
price fixed by the royal governourS, the whole
profits accruing to the royal treasury. The
king's order was universally‚ though unwillingly
complied with, the new manufacture costing
them much labour, with little or no gain to the
labourers. I will give you an account of the
whole processz—The, tobacco leaves are ac-
counted ripe when their ends turn yellow, and
wither, and are plucked before noon, as being

