294 ACCOUNT OF THE ABIPONES.

But I think that no European would dislike the.
flesh of the crocodile, unless it were on account
of the musk which it has both in its jaws and
testicleS. Provident priests hang up a small
particle of the glans, to which that musk adheres,
wrapped in a piece of gold, or silk stuffi in the
sacred coffer of the great altar, where the Eu-
charist is kept, in order to keep off worms,
which, in so moist and hot a climate, are other-
wise bred in the sacred waser.

When you hear it said that crocodiles abound
in venom, pray account it an old wife's sable3
for it is very certain that they are caten by the
Indians‚ and would be eagerly sought by all
Europeans also, were it not for their musk.
Crocodiles' teeth grow very deep in the head,
are hollow at the root, but where they terminate
in a point, extremely solid, and capable of
tearing the hardest substance. It is a terrible
circumstance that whatever this beast gets .
within its teeth it never lets loose of. In the
new kingdom of Granada, if a crocodile catches
hold of the arm of a swimming Indian with his
jaws, those who come to his assistance immedi-
ately cut it off, to preserve the rest of the body,

as the man would otherwise lose his life. ,Ι ’

will now describe to you their manner of breed-
ing. The females, almost every day, lay about
thirty cggs, cylinder-shaped‚ and as large as

