270 ACCOUNT or THE ABIPoNEs.

against cold, but even against rain. This beast
is not able to keep running for any length of
time, and may be easily caught by a person on
horseback‚ or even on foot. Its flesh is eaten
by the Indians‚ but not reckoned a dainty.
When young it is very soon tamed in the colo-
nies of the Indians, but seldom brought up by
them, because it must be chiefly sed upon ants,
which are very troublesome to procure.

THE WILD BOAR.

Four different species of boars abound in Pa-
raguay. The most remarkable are those which
have upon their backs a spungy, glandulous little
piece of flesh, swelled with a white liquor re-
sembling milk, and scented like musk. This
boss is immediately amputated after the ani-
mal's death, before the intolerable odour of
musk has infected the flesh, and rendered it
unfit for use. In woodS‚ near marshes, and
marshy fields, wander herds of boars, which are
killed, either with a stake‚ or with arrows, by
the Indians. Herds of boars sometimes rushed
into the colony of St. Ferdinand‚ perhaps from

the hope of finding food there, perhaps from .

some other motive. But the Abipones, assem-
bling together, killed a great number of them,
and feasted sumptuously upon their fiesh for
somc days. Ι was told that boars entered the

