PARAGUAY. f 13

the kingdom of the J esuits, a republic rebellious
to the Catholic King, painting them in the
blackest colours which envy and unbridled ca-
hnnny can suggeffln Letrne be excused,if
to manifest the falsehood of their calumnies, I
mention the following facts z—-That the Jesuit
missionaries have ever left Europe at the ex-
pense of the Catholic King, for the purpose of
founding new colonieS, and preserving the old—
that they are supported by an annual stipend
from the royal purs'e——that the Guaranies pay
yearly tribute to the King——that a century
before as many thousands as were appointed,
fought in the royal camps without any stipend,
whenever they were called upon by the royal
governour— that the parishes are visited by the
Bishops as often as seems good-—that the
Bishops are honourably received, and splen-
didly entertained, it may be for many weeks—
that the castles of Buenos-Ayres and Monte-
Video were built under the direction, indeed,
of the Spaniards, but by the labour of the
Guaranies—that the royal army consists chiefly
of the Guaranies, under our authority, which
were ruled by a few Spaniards, as the body
by the soul, in every undertaking against the
warlike savages, against the Portugueze and
their town of Nova Colonia, so often attacked
and taken, or against the insurgents of the city

