PREFACE. vii

credit. Yet I do not look upon myself 35
3 ‘person incapable of making 3 mistake,
and unwilling to be corrected. Convince
me of error and I shall yield‚ and become
as pliable 35 wax. Yet I advise you to
proceed with cantion 3 for you may err in
judging as well 35 Ι in writing. So sar am
I from deeming this little work of mine
perfect, that before it is printed and pub-
lished‚ I intend to correct and polish it.
But as Ι am now fast approaching my six-
and—sixtieth year, I dare no longer defer
the publication, lest the work should prove
3 posthumous one. These premises I
havelthought proper to make. Adieu!
friendly reader‚ whoever you are3 and
pardon the errors of the press9 and of the
author likewise: for, Nihil humanum a me
alienum putO.”

In the course of the work, Dobrizhoffer
frequently takes occasion to refute and
expose the erroneous statements of other
writers respecting the J esuits in Paraguay,
and the malignant calumnies by which the
ruin of their institutions in that country
was 5ο unhappily effected. It has been

