406 ACCOUNT OF THE ABIPONES.

tima by the Spaniards, and opuntia by bo-
tanisi‘s. From a very short root rises a thick
stalk, sometimes four-cornered, green, crooked,
with a white fragile pulp, and covered with
thorns: on this, instead of boughs and leaves,
grow other stalkS, the same as the former, very
long, and extremely full of juice. Yellow
flowers are succeeded by fruit of a red colour,
larger than a common fig, with a sweet, and at
the same time, rather acid flavour, which ren-
ders them very delightful to the palate. Their
pulp is full of small, black seeds, like grape
stoneS, and when peeled has a delicious taste.
From these shrubs therefore, the women collect
cochineal‚ which consists of very small, white,
fluid particleS‚ closely resembling moss. Most
of the particles are made into small, round
cakes, and, after exposure to the air, become
red and hard. Nothing further is requisite to
fit them for painting, and dying. The Jesuit
priest of the Guarany town Nuestra Senhora
de Sta. Fe, took care to have the tuna thistle
planted in a large garden, that they might not
be obliged to seek the cochineal necessary for
his town in distant plains. When the thistles
were grown up, those winged insects, resem-
bling bugs‚ were carried by the Indians from
the plain, and scattered up and down, with
more than thc desired success, for so abundant,

