PARAGUAY. 39

forget their old propensities amongst the an· ²
tipodes‚· for they sometimes fled in troops,
from the desire of marriage and a life of less
hardship.

During the voyage, Zevallos was anxiously
devising methods to tranquillize Paraguay,
which he imagined to be embroiled with intes-
tine war, and devoted to King Nicholas. On
coming in sight of the shores of Buenos-AyreS‚
lest by a sudden landing he should endanger his
men, he despatched some soldiers in a boat to
feel the way before them. Perceiving a multi-
tude assembled on the bank of the river plata,
they hailed them from afar with the usual inter-
rogation of the Spanish guardS‚ Quiete vive?-
Who reigns here? With one voice they ex-
claimed, that Ferdinand the Sixth was their
king, and should remain so as long as they
lived. This was more than enough to quiet the
fears of the soldiers, who, deceived by European
reports, imagined that King Nicholas would be
dethroned with the utmost difficulty, and at the
expense of their own and much foreign blood.
Zevallos himself was astonished when he learnt
that the Guaranies had long since been brought
to subnnsfflon. lie had.themffore no fighfing
with the Indians, but many contentions with
the officers of the Portugueze faction, among
whom the Marquis Val-de-Lirios held a distin-

D 4

