12 ’ Acc0UNT OF THE ABIPONEs.

for the rest of their lives. The women destroy
themselves with labour, weaving, and exquisitely
embroidering garments, which they call pon-
‘chos. The men are naturally agile, lively, and
expert in horsemanship3 but, from their indo-
lence and love of ease, are oppressed with po-
verty, when they might abound in every thing, if
they but knew how to improve -the fertility of
the soil, and the advantages os the river. The
Abipones, who had long afflicted the neighbour-
hood with slaughter and rapine, being at length
subdued‚ and settled in the new colony of St.
Ferdinand‚ the inhabitants revived after they had
entertained thoughts of deserting the city, and
the use of the fields and woods, on the other
side of the river, was restored them. These last,
being stocked with noble treeS, afford excellent
materials for building ships and waggonS. The
fields supply pasturage for cattle of various
kinds. The inhabitants derive considerable pro-
fits from these sources3 gains which the daily
fear of assailing savages deprived them of. The
lat. of the city is 270 432 its long. 3180 57¹.

In the jurisdiction of the Governour of Buenos-
AyreS‚ are also thirty Guarany towns, on or near
the banks of the Parana, the Uruguay, and ‘the
Paraguay. By geographers they are called
Doctrines, or the land of Missions; but the
ignorant or malieious style them, in their books,

