PARAGUAY. 417

strained through an earthen pan perforated at
the bottom, and the longer it is exposed to the
sun, the more thoroughly it is purge'd of the
dregS, which flovv off into a vessel placed be-
neath the pan, and the whiter and better sugar
it becomes. Of these dregs the Spaniards make
either coarser sugar, or aqua vitae, by liquefy-
ing it at the fire drop by drop. For the same
purpose others use the canes that have been
pressed by the cylinderS, but have not had all
their juice entirely squeezed out. Observe,
inoveover, that the pans in which that sweet
liquor is daily exposed to the sun are carefully
covered with fresh moist mud. All {the sugar
prepared in Paraguay, and the neighbouring
Brazil, has the appearance of vvheat flour. That
alone is used by the Portu gueze3 it is transported
from Lisbon, in shipS‚ to different places, and
made as hard as a stone by aid of chalk, or
bull's blood. As the industry of the inhabitants
in Paraguay by no means answers to the ferti-
lity of the soil, the sugar made there is rarely
sufficient for that province, so that no one
thinks of exporting any from thence. On the
contrary, from the exquisite cultivation of the
sugar cane, Brazil derives immense wealth
from Europe; it is the chief strength of the
Portugueze trade, and a perpetual source of
VOL. 1. E E

