212 ACCOUNT OF THE ADIPONES.

At the close of the last century, Father An-
tony Sepp found out a method of extracting a
small quantity of iron from stones named yta-
curzi', by dint of a very hot fire kept up for
twenty-four hoan. But he had scarcely any
imitatorS, for the quantity of iron obtained was
so inconsiderable, in proportion to the labour
and firewood spent upon it, that it was not
thoughtworth the trouble. These stones, which
are composed of a number of very small pebbles,
are of a dusky colour, mottled with black spots,
In our times, somewhat more iron has been
brought in the Spanish shiPS, but even now it is
sold at a price incredible to Europeans. All the
Guarany youths, on their marriage-day, and the
married people at the beginning of J anuary, re-
ceive from the Jesuit‚ the priest of the town, a
common lznife to use at table. This donation is
more expensive than Europeans may imagine, as
some of the towns contain four thousand inha-
bitants, some six or seven. Yet, notwithstand-
ing the dearness ofiron, none of us ever thought
of procuring a trifling quantity of it, with im-
mense labour, from the stones named ytacurit.

Out of the Cordoban mountainS, they some-

times dig talc, a sort of sostish white stone, very ’

light, and of no firmness. It consists of slender
laminae, so that it may be divided with a knise

into small plateS‚ and is sometimes dipped in

