PARAGUAY. ¹ 303

Indians3 though when young they are reckoned a
dainty by Europeans even. Capiiguaras may be
wounded without difficulty, either with a spear,
an arrow, or a ball, but it requires great good
fortune to catch them3 sor on receiving a wound,
as they are excellent swimmers and divers, they
immediately hide themselves under water, and
extract the arrow or spear which is sticking in
their flesh. The Abipones, who frequently em-
ploy themselves in hunting these animals‚ after
wounding a pig, swim after it and overtake it in
the water. The skin of the capiiguara is very
thick, and were it properly dressed, would be
useful in various ways.

THE OTTER.

Otters swarm in the lakes and rivers of Para-
guay. If I mistake not, they differ from those
of Europe in no other respect than in being
somewhat smaller. They are most numerous
in the Abiponian territories, and those adjacent
to the cities of Sta. Fe, Cordoba, and Corrientes.

·In the distant hordes of the Mocobios and Abi-

poneS, towards the north, there are no Otters,
or very few at least. The savages make use of
them in various ways. They feed upon their
flesh, and make cloaks of their skins.

When the lakes and rivers are almost ex-
hausted by a long drought‚ the Abipones go

