PARAGUAY. 267

struck with sudden terror, sor they are ex-
tremely timorous, scour off in all ,directions
This spectacle frequently amused and delighted
us Europeans. HuanaCOS‚ though very wild
and. shy, may be easily tamed in the towns,
When young. Besides the skin and flesh of the
huanacos, the bezoar stone, which is often
found in their insides, is of value. It some-
times weighs more than a pound, is always
ovaI, scarce smaller than a hen's egg, and
painted, like marble, with most exquisite co-
lourS. Most probably it derives this medicinal
property from the animal's feeding upon whole-
some herbs, which grow in the mountains: its
virtueS, however, are thought little of by the
physicians of these times, who despise old pre-
scriptions.

THE PERUVIAN SHEEP LLAMAS.

Peru, the neighbour of Paraguay, produces ,
wild animals, in which the bezoar of various
colours, forms, and sizeS, is found: namely, the
native sheep, which the Indians call LlamaS,
the Spaniards Carneros de la Tierra‚ and which
are used, like beasts of burden, for carrying
weights, not exceeding one hundred pounds.

THE VICUNA.

This country likewise produces VicufiaS‚ ani-

