vi PREFACE.

greater fidelity than elegance, and for the
want of this I an1 surely to be pardoned 3
for who can expect the graces of Livy,
Sallust, Caesar, Strada, or Maffeus, from
one who, for 5ο many years, has had no
⁷ commerce with the museS, no access to
classical literature? Yet in writing of
savageS, I have taken especial care that no
barbarisms should creep into my language.
If my sincerity be only aeknowledged, Ι
shall have attained my object: for candour
was always the most noble ornament of an
historian. To record true, and as far as
possible well-established faetS, has been
my chief aim. When you read, I do not
ask you to praise or admire, but to believe
me; that Ι think I may justly demand.”

‘⁶ What I have learnt amongst the Para-
guayrians in the course of eighteen yearS,
what I have myself beheld in the colonies
of the Indians and SpaniardS, in frequent
and long journeys through woodS, moun-
tainS, plainS, and vast rivers, I have set
forth, if not in an eloquent and brilliant
narration, certainly in a candid and accu-
rate one, which is at least deserving of

