138 AccoUNT OF THE ABJPONES.

vince of Chaco. In the present age, by much
labour of the J esuits, three towns have arisen,
at an immense expense, for the southern savages,
the inhabitants of the Magellanic territory, all
dedicated to the most holy mother of God.
The first, named Concepcion, is inhabited by
the Pampas, and acted as a defence to the inha-
bitants of Buenos-Ayres against the incursions
of the savages. The rulers of the newly-built
town, Father Matthias Strobl from the province
of Austria, and Manuel Querini, a Venetian of
noble family, were men of distinguished piety,
prudence, and fortitude. Both Fathers posâ€”
sessed singular dexterity in managing the minds
of the Indians. The neighbourhood of the city,
and of the Spanish estates, where there was
plenty of spirit and of bad example, incredibly
retarded the conversion of the savages to a
better way of life. The Serranos and Pata-
gonianS, who came backwards and forwards to
visit the PampaS, won by the kindness of the
Father, and taken by the conveniences of life
which the inhabitants of the colonies enjoyed,
began earnestly to desire* a little town of this sort
in their native soil. Their wishes were imme-
diately gratified. Fathers Falconer and Cardiel,
the one an Englishman of great skill in medi-
cine, the other a Spaniam, and a man of an

