80 ACCOUNT or THE ABIPONES.

whole neighbourhood as a formidable juggler,
displayed in his tent ¹an heap of sculls, whose
former possessors he had taken off, partly by
poison partly by violence.

At last the Caciques made a final resolve,
and entreated me to get a colony founded for
them in their native land, like those which the
other Indian Christians had obtained. Icon-
sented to their wishes with the more pleasure,
from perceiving the opportunities of seeking·
out other savages in the remoter forests‚>which
a settlement in the woods of Mbaevera would
afford. Tupanchichu, though averse to the wor-
ship of Christ, durst not oppose the other two
Caciques, men of more weight than himself as
well from their age, as from the number of their
adherents. He cunningly therefore pretended to
assent, that he might the more certainly over-
turn the design of founding a colony. After
having spent three days with them, Ι told them
all that I intended to depart the next day, but
that when I had procured cattle, and other ne-
cessaries for building and preserving the town,
Iwould immediately return. To testify their
good-will the Caciques made their sons accom-
pany me to my town. The hypocritical Tupan-

Α chichu having no son grown up, associated with

me his wife's brother, a youth of surpassing
comeliness. Four sons of Cacique Roy came

