PARAGUAY. 221

paper they are totally useless to European cur-
riers, on account of whose complaints this
stretching of hides has long since been prohi-
bited. The Spaniards, finding that the trade in
hides was by Far the most profitable to them of
any, were possessed with a blind rage for kill-
ing all the oxen they could lay hands on. For
this purpose, troops of horse were perpetually
traversing those plains which abounded most
in wild cattle. The horsemen employed have
each separate tasks assigned them. Some sur-
nished with swift horses attack a herd of oxen,
and with a long spear, to which is added a sharp
semicircular scythe, disable the older bulls by
cutting· the nerve of the hinder foot; others
throw the halter on them whilst they are stag-
gering, and others follow behind to knock down
and slayrthe captive bulls. The rest are em-

ployed in stripping the hides off the slaughtel-ed .. .- -.

animaIS, conveying them to an appointed place;·· ⁸
fixing them to the ground with pegs, and-,taking
out and carrying away the tongues, suet, and

fat. The rest of the flesh, which would suffice ⁷ Π

to seed a numerous army in Europe, is left on
the plain to be devoured by tigers, wild dogs
and ravens gand indeed one might almost sear
lest the air should be corrupted by such a quan-
tity of dead bodies. In an expedition of this
kind, lasting several weeks, the person at whose

